.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH TS 1 "1.0.1e" "11/Feb/2013" "OpenSSL"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
ts \- Time Stamping Authority tool (client/server)
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBopenssl\fR \fBts\fR
\fB\-query\fR
[\fB\-rand\fR file:file...]
[\fB\-config\fR configfile]
[\fB\-data\fR file_to_hash]
[\fB\-digest\fR digest_bytes]
[\fB\-md2\fR|\fB\-md4\fR|\fB\-md5\fR|\fB\-sha\fR|\fB\-sha1\fR|\fB\-mdc2\fR|\fB\-ripemd160\fR|\fB...\fR]
[\fB\-policy\fR object_id]
[\fB\-no_nonce\fR]
[\fB\-cert\fR]
[\fB\-in\fR request.tsq]
[\fB\-out\fR request.tsq]
[\fB\-text\fR]
.PP
\fBopenssl\fR \fBts\fR
\fB\-reply\fR
[\fB\-config\fR configfile]
[\fB\-section\fR tsa_section]
[\fB\-queryfile\fR request.tsq]
[\fB\-passin\fR password_src]
[\fB\-signer\fR tsa_cert.pem]
[\fB\-inkey\fR private.pem]
[\fB\-chain\fR certs_file.pem]
[\fB\-policy\fR object_id]
[\fB\-in\fR response.tsr]
[\fB\-token_in\fR]
[\fB\-out\fR response.tsr]
[\fB\-token_out\fR]
[\fB\-text\fR]
[\fB\-engine\fR id]
.PP
\fBopenssl\fR \fBts\fR
\fB\-verify\fR
[\fB\-data\fR file_to_hash]
[\fB\-digest\fR digest_bytes]
[\fB\-queryfile\fR request.tsq]
[\fB\-in\fR response.tsr]
[\fB\-token_in\fR]
[\fB\-CApath\fR trusted_cert_path]
[\fB\-CAfile\fR trusted_certs.pem]
[\fB\-untrusted\fR cert_file.pem]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBts\fR command is a basic Time Stamping Authority (TSA) client and server
application as specified in RFC 3161 (Time-Stamp Protocol, TSP). A
TSA can be part of a PKI deployment and its role is to provide long
term proof of the existence of a certain datum before a particular
time. Here is a brief description of the protocol:
.Ip "1." 4
The \s-1TSA\s0 client computes a one-way hash value for a data file and sends
the hash to the \s-1TSA\s0.
.Ip "2." 4
The \s-1TSA\s0 attaches the current date and time to the received hash value,
signs them and sends the time stamp token back to the client. By
creating this token the \s-1TSA\s0 certifies the existence of the original
data file at the time of response generation.
.Ip "3." 4
The \s-1TSA\s0 client receives the time stamp token and verifies the
signature on it. It also checks if the token contains the same hash
value that it had sent to the \s-1TSA\s0.
.PP
There is one \s-1DER\s0 encoded protocol data unit defined for transporting a time
stamp request to the \s-1TSA\s0 and one for sending the time stamp response
back to the client. The \fBts\fR command has three main functions:
creating a time stamp request based on a data file,
creating a time stamp response based on a request, verifying if a
response corresponds to a particular request or a data file.
.PP
There is no support for sending the requests/responses automatically
over \s-1HTTP\s0 or \s-1TCP\s0 yet as suggested in \s-1RFC\s0 3161. The users must send the
requests either by ftp or e-mail.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Sh "Time Stamp Request generation"
The \fB\-query\fR switch can be used for creating and printing a time stamp
request with the following options:
.Ip "\fB\-rand\fR file:file..." 4
The files containing random data for seeding the random number
generator. Multiple files can be specified, the separator is \fB;\fR for
\s-1MS\s0\-Windows, \fB,\fR for \s-1VMS\s0 and \fB:\fR for all other platforms. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-config\fR configfile" 4
The configuration file to use, this option overrides the
\fB\s-1OPENSSL_CONF\s0\fR environment variable. Only the \s-1OID\s0 section
of the config file is used with the \fB\-query\fR command. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-data\fR file_to_hash" 4
The data file for which the time stamp request needs to be
created. stdin is the default if neither the \fB\-data\fR nor the \fB\-digest\fR
parameter is specified. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-digest\fR digest_bytes" 4
It is possible to specify the message imprint explicitly without the data
file. The imprint must be specified in a hexadecimal format, two characters
per byte, the bytes optionally separated by colons (e.g. 1A:F6:01:... or
1AF601...). The number of bytes must match the message digest algorithm 
in use. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-md2\fR|\fB\-md4\fR|\fB\-md5\fR|\fB\-sha\fR|\fB\-sha1\fR|\fB\-mdc2\fR|\fB\-ripemd160\fR|\fB...\fR" 4
The message digest to apply to the data file, it supports all the message
digest algorithms that are supported by the openssl \fBdgst\fR command.
The default is \s-1SHA\s0\-1. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-policy\fR object_id" 4
The policy that the client expects the \s-1TSA\s0 to use for creating the
time stamp token. Either the dotted \s-1OID\s0 notation or \s-1OID\s0 names defined
in the config file can be used. If no policy is requested the \s-1TSA\s0 will
use its own default policy. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-no_nonce\fR" 4
No nonce is specified in the request if this option is
given. Otherwise a 64 bit long pseudo-random none is
included in the request. It is recommended to use nonce to
protect against replay-attacks. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-cert\fR" 4
The \s-1TSA\s0 is expected to include its signing certificate in the
response. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-in\fR request.tsq" 4
This option specifies a previously created time stamp request in \s-1DER\s0
format that will be printed into the output file. Useful when you need
to examine the content of a request in human-readable
.Sp
format. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-out\fR request.tsq" 4
Name of the output file to which the request will be written. Default
is stdout. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-text\fR" 4
If this option is specified the output is human-readable text format
instead of \s-1DER\s0. (Optional)
.Sh "Time Stamp Response generation"
A time stamp response (TimeStampResp) consists of a response status
and the time stamp token itself (ContentInfo), if the token generation was
successful. The \fB\-reply\fR command is for creating a time stamp
response or time stamp token based on a request and printing the
response/token in human-readable format. If \fB\-token_out\fR is not
specified the output is always a time stamp response (TimeStampResp),
otherwise it is a time stamp token (ContentInfo).
.Ip "\fB\-config\fR configfile" 4
The configuration file to use, this option overrides the
\fB\s-1OPENSSL_CONF\s0\fR environment variable. See \fB\s-1CONFIGURATION\s0 \s-1FILE\s0
\s-1OPTIONS\s0\fR for configurable variables. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-section\fR tsa_section" 4
The name of the config file section conatining the settings for the
response generation. If not specified the default \s-1TSA\s0 section is
used, see \fB\s-1CONFIGURATION\s0 \s-1FILE\s0 \s-1OPTIONS\s0\fR for details. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-queryfile\fR request.tsq" 4
The name of the file containing a \s-1DER\s0 encoded time stamp request. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-passin\fR password_src" 4
Specifies the password source for the private key of the \s-1TSA\s0. See
\fB\s-1PASS\s0 \s-1PHRASE\s0 \s-1ARGUMENTS\s0\fR in openssl(1). (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-signer\fR tsa_cert.pem" 4
The signer certificate of the \s-1TSA\s0 in \s-1PEM\s0 format. The \s-1TSA\s0 signing
certificate must have exactly one extended key usage assigned to it:
timeStamping. The extended key usage must also be critical, otherwise
the certificate is going to be refused. Overrides the \fBsigner_cert\fR
variable of the config file. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-inkey\fR private.pem" 4
The signer private key of the \s-1TSA\s0 in \s-1PEM\s0 format. Overrides the
\fBsigner_key\fR config file option. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-chain\fR certs_file.pem" 4
The collection of certificates in \s-1PEM\s0 format that will all
be included in the response in addition to the signer certificate if
the \fB\-cert\fR option was used for the request. This file is supposed to
contain the certificate chain for the signer certificate from its
issuer upwards. The \fB\-reply\fR command does not build a certificate
chain automatically. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-policy\fR object_id" 4
The default policy to use for the response unless the client
explicitly requires a particular \s-1TSA\s0 policy. The \s-1OID\s0 can be specified
either in dotted notation or with its name. Overrides the
\fBdefault_policy\fR config file option. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-in\fR response.tsr" 4
Specifies a previously created time stamp response or time stamp token
(if \fB\-token_in\fR is also specified) in \s-1DER\s0 format that will be written
to the output file. This option does not require a request, it is
useful e.g. when you need to examine the content of a response or
token or you want to extract the time stamp token from a response. If
the input is a token and the output is a time stamp response a default
\&'granted\*(R' status info is added to the token. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-token_in\fR" 4
This flag can be used together with the \fB\-in\fR option and indicates
that the input is a \s-1DER\s0 encoded time stamp token (ContentInfo) instead
of a time stamp response (TimeStampResp). (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-out\fR response.tsr" 4
The response is written to this file. The format and content of the
file depends on other options (see \fB\-text\fR, \fB\-token_out\fR). The default is
stdout. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-token_out\fR" 4
The output is a time stamp token (ContentInfo) instead of time stamp
response (TimeStampResp). (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-text\fR" 4
If this option is specified the output is human-readable text format
instead of \s-1DER\s0. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-engine\fR id" 4
Specifying an engine (by its unique \fBid\fR string) will cause \fBts\fR
to attempt to obtain a functional reference to the specified engine,
thus initialising it if needed. The engine will then be set as the default
for all available algorithms. Default is builtin. (Optional)
.Sh "Time Stamp Response verification"
The \fB\-verify\fR command is for verifying if a time stamp response or time
stamp token is valid and matches a particular time stamp request or
data file. The \fB\-verify\fR command does not use the configuration file.
.Ip "\fB\-data\fR file_to_hash" 4
The response or token must be verified against file_to_hash. The file
is hashed with the message digest algorithm specified in the token. 
The \fB\-digest\fR and \fB\-queryfile\fR options must not be specified with this one.
(Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-digest\fR digest_bytes" 4
The response or token must be verified against the message digest specified
with this option. The number of bytes must match the message digest algorithm
specified in the token. The \fB\-data\fR and \fB\-queryfile\fR options must not be
specified with this one. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-queryfile\fR request.tsq" 4
The original time stamp request in \s-1DER\s0 format. The \fB\-data\fR and \fB\-digest\fR
options must not be specified with this one. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-in\fR response.tsr" 4
The time stamp response that needs to be verified in \s-1DER\s0 format. (Mandatory)
.Ip "\fB\-token_in\fR" 4
This flag can be used together with the \fB\-in\fR option and indicates
that the input is a \s-1DER\s0 encoded time stamp token (ContentInfo) instead
of a time stamp response (TimeStampResp). (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-CApath\fR trusted_cert_path" 4
The name of the directory containing the trused \s-1CA\s0 certificates of the
client. See the similar option of verify(1) for additional
details. Either this option or \fB\-CAfile\fR must be specified. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-CAfile\fR trusted_certs.pem" 4
The name of the file containing a set of trusted self-signed \s-1CA\s0 
certificates in \s-1PEM\s0 format. See the similar option of 
verify(1) for additional details. Either this option 
or \fB\-CApath\fR must be specified.
(Optional)
.Ip "\fB\-untrusted\fR cert_file.pem" 4
Set of additional untrusted certificates in \s-1PEM\s0 format which may be
needed when building the certificate chain for the \s-1TSA\s0's signing
certificate. This file must contain the \s-1TSA\s0 signing certificate and
all intermediate \s-1CA\s0 certificates unless the response includes them.
(Optional)
.SH "CONFIGURATION FILE OPTIONS"
The \fB\-query\fR and \fB\-reply\fR commands make use of a configuration file
defined by the \fBOPENSSL_CONF\fR environment variable. See config(5)
for a general description of the syntax of the config file. The
\fB\-query\fR command uses only the symbolic OID names section
and it can work without it. However, the \fB\-reply\fR command needs the
config file for its operation.
.PP
When there is a command line switch equivalent of a variable the
switch always overrides the settings in the config file.
.Ip "\fBtsa\fR section, \fBdefault_tsa\fR	" 4
This is the main section and it specifies the name of another section
that contains all the options for the \fB\-reply\fR command. This default
section can be overriden with the \fB\-section\fR command line switch. (Optional)
.Ip "\fBoid_file\fR" 4
See ca(1) for description. (Optional)
.Ip "\fBoid_section\fR" 4
See ca(1) for description. (Optional)
.Ip "\fB\s-1RANDFILE\s0\fR" 4
See ca(1) for description. (Optional)
.Ip "\fBserial\fR" 4
The name of the file containing the hexadecimal serial number of the
last time stamp response created. This number is incremented by 1 for
each response. If the file does not exist at the time of response
generation a new file is created with serial number 1. (Mandatory)
.Ip "\fBcrypto_device\fR" 4
Specifies the OpenSSL engine that will be set as the default for 
all available algorithms. The default value is builtin, you can specify 
any other engines supported by OpenSSL (e.g. use chil for the NCipher \s-1HSM\s0).
(Optional)
.Ip "\fBsigner_cert\fR" 4
\s-1TSA\s0 signing certificate in \s-1PEM\s0 format. The same as the \fB\-signer\fR
command line option. (Optional)
.Ip "\fBcerts\fR" 4
A file containing a set of \s-1PEM\s0 encoded certificates that need to be
included in the response. The same as the \fB\-chain\fR command line
option. (Optional)
.Ip "\fBsigner_key\fR" 4
The private key of the \s-1TSA\s0 in \s-1PEM\s0 format. The same as the \fB\-inkey\fR
command line option. (Optional)
.Ip "\fBdefault_policy\fR" 4
The default policy to use when the request does not mandate any
policy. The same as the \fB\-policy\fR command line option. (Optional)
.Ip "\fBother_policies\fR" 4
Comma separated list of policies that are also acceptable by the \s-1TSA\s0
and used only if the request explicitly specifies one of them. (Optional)
.Ip "\fBdigests\fR" 4
The list of message digest algorithms that the \s-1TSA\s0 accepts. At least
one algorithm must be specified. (Mandatory)
.Ip "\fBaccuracy\fR" 4
The accuracy of the time source of the \s-1TSA\s0 in seconds, milliseconds
and microseconds. E.g. secs:1, millisecs:500, microsecs:100. If any of
the components is missing zero is assumed for that field. (Optional)
.Ip "\fBclock_precision_digits\fR" 4
Specifies the maximum number of digits, which represent the fraction of 
seconds, that  need to be included in the time field. The trailing zeroes
must be removed from the time, so there might actually be fewer digits,
or no fraction of seconds at all. Supported only on \s-1UNIX\s0 platforms.
The maximum value is 6, default is 0.
(Optional)
.Ip "\fBordering\fR" 4
If this option is yes the responses generated by this \s-1TSA\s0 can always
be ordered, even if the time difference between two responses is less
than the sum of their accuracies. Default is no. (Optional)
.Ip "\fBtsa_name\fR" 4
Set this option to yes if the subject name of the \s-1TSA\s0 must be included in
the \s-1TSA\s0 name field of the response. Default is no. (Optional)
.Ip "\fBess_cert_id_chain\fR" 4
The SignedData objects created by the \s-1TSA\s0 always contain the
certificate identifier of the signing certificate in a signed
attribute (see \s-1RFC\s0 2634, Enhanced Security Services). If this option
is set to yes and either the \fBcerts\fR variable or the \fB\-chain\fR option
is specified then the certificate identifiers of the chain will also
be included in the SigningCertificate signed attribute. If this
variable is set to no, only the signing certificate identifier is
included. Default is no. (Optional)
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
\fBOPENSSL_CONF\fR contains the path of the configuration file and can be
overriden by the \fB\-config\fR command line option.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
All the examples below presume that \fBOPENSSL_CONF\fR is set to a proper
configuration file, e.g. the example configuration file 
openssl/apps/openssl.cnf will do.
.Sh "Time Stamp Request"
To create a time stamp request for design1.txt with \s-1SHA\s0\-1 
without nonce and policy and no certificate is required in the response:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&  openssl ts -query -data design1.txt -no_nonce \e
\&        -out design1.tsq
.Ve
To create a similar time stamp request with specifying the message imprint
explicitly:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&  openssl ts -query -digest b7e5d3f93198b38379852f2c04e78d73abdd0f4b \e
\&         -no_nonce -out design1.tsq
.Ve
To print the content of the previous request in human readable format:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&  openssl ts -query -in design1.tsq -text
.Ve
To create a time stamp request which includes the \s-1MD\s0\-5 digest 
of design2.txt, requests the signer certificate and nonce,
specifies a policy id (assuming the tsa_policy1 name is defined in the
\s-1OID\s0 section of the config file):
.PP
.Vb 2
\&  openssl ts -query -data design2.txt -md5 \e
\&        -policy tsa_policy1 -cert -out design2.tsq
.Ve
.Sh "Time Stamp Response"
Before generating a response a signing certificate must be created for
the \s-1TSA\s0 that contains the \fBtimeStamping\fR critical extended key usage extension
without any other key usage extensions. You can add the
\&'extendedKeyUsage = critical,timeStamping\*(R' line to the user certificate section
of the config file to generate a proper certificate. See req(1),
ca(1), x509(1) for instructions. The examples
below assume that cacert.pem contains the certificate of the \s-1CA\s0,
tsacert.pem is the signing certificate issued by cacert.pem and
tsakey.pem is the private key of the \s-1TSA\s0.
.PP
To create a time stamp response for a request:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&  openssl ts -reply -queryfile design1.tsq -inkey tsakey.pem \e
\&        -signer tsacert.pem -out design1.tsr
.Ve
If you want to use the settings in the config file you could just write:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&  openssl ts -reply -queryfile design1.tsq -out design1.tsr
.Ve
To print a time stamp reply to stdout in human readable format:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&  openssl ts -reply -in design1.tsr -text
.Ve
To create a time stamp token instead of time stamp response:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&  openssl ts -reply -queryfile design1.tsq -out design1_token.der -token_out
.Ve
To print a time stamp token to stdout in human readable format:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&  openssl ts -reply -in design1_token.der -token_in -text -token_out
.Ve
To extract the time stamp token from a response:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&  openssl ts -reply -in design1.tsr -out design1_token.der -token_out
.Ve
To add \*(L'granted\*(R' status info to a time stamp token thereby creating a
valid response:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&  openssl ts -reply -in design1_token.der -token_in -out design1.tsr
.Ve
.Sh "Time Stamp Verification"
To verify a time stamp reply against a request:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&  openssl ts -verify -queryfile design1.tsq -in design1.tsr \e
\&        -CAfile cacert.pem -untrusted tsacert.pem
.Ve
To verify a time stamp reply that includes the certificate chain:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&  openssl ts -verify -queryfile design2.tsq -in design2.tsr \e
\&        -CAfile cacert.pem
.Ve
To verify a time stamp token against the original data file:
  openssl ts \-verify \-data design2.txt \-in design2.tsr \e
	\-CAfile cacert.pem
.PP
To verify a time stamp token against a message imprint:
  openssl ts \-verify \-digest b7e5d3f93198b38379852f2c04e78d73abdd0f4b \e
	 \-in design2.tsr \-CAfile cacert.pem
.PP
You could also look at the \*(L'test\*(R' directory for more examples.
.SH "BUGS"
If you find any bugs or you have suggestions please write to
Zoltan Glozik <zglozik@opentsa.org>. Known issues:
.Ip "\(bu No support for time stamps over \s-1SMTP\s0, though it is quite easy to implement an automatic e-mail based \s-1TSA\s0 with procmail(1)  and perl(1). \s-1HTTP\s0 server support is provided in the form of  a separate apache module. \s-1HTTP\s0 client support is provided by tsget(1). Pure \s-1TCP/IP\s0 protocol is not supported." 4
.Ip "\(bu The file containing the last serial number of the \s-1TSA\s0 is not locked when being read or written. This is a problem if more than one instance of openssl(1) is trying to create a time stamp response at the same time. This is not an issue when using the apache server module, it does proper locking." 4
.Ip "\(bu Look for the \s-1FIXME\s0 word in the source files." 4
.Ip "\(bu The source code should really be reviewed by somebody else, too." 4
.Ip "\(bu More testing is needed, I have done only some basic tests (see test/testtsa)." 4
.SH "AUTHOR"
Zoltan Glozik <zglozik@opentsa.org>, OpenTSA project (http://www.opentsa.org)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tsget(1), openssl(1), req(1), 
x509(1), ca(1), genrsa(1), 
config(5)

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "TS 1"
.IX Name "ts - Time Stamping Authority tool (client/server)"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Item "1."

.IX Item "2."

.IX Item "3."

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Subsection "Time Stamp Request generation"

.IX Item "\fB\-rand\fR file:file..."

.IX Item "\fB\-config\fR configfile"

.IX Item "\fB\-data\fR file_to_hash"

.IX Item "\fB\-digest\fR digest_bytes"

.IX Item "\fB\-md2\fR|\fB\-md4\fR|\fB\-md5\fR|\fB\-sha\fR|\fB\-sha1\fR|\fB\-mdc2\fR|\fB\-ripemd160\fR|\fB...\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-policy\fR object_id"

.IX Item "\fB\-no_nonce\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-cert\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-in\fR request.tsq"

.IX Item "\fB\-out\fR request.tsq"

.IX Item "\fB\-text\fR"

.IX Subsection "Time Stamp Response generation"

.IX Item "\fB\-config\fR configfile"

.IX Item "\fB\-section\fR tsa_section"

.IX Item "\fB\-queryfile\fR request.tsq"

.IX Item "\fB\-passin\fR password_src"

.IX Item "\fB\-signer\fR tsa_cert.pem"

.IX Item "\fB\-inkey\fR private.pem"

.IX Item "\fB\-chain\fR certs_file.pem"

.IX Item "\fB\-policy\fR object_id"

.IX Item "\fB\-in\fR response.tsr"

.IX Item "\fB\-token_in\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-out\fR response.tsr"

.IX Item "\fB\-token_out\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-text\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-engine\fR id"

.IX Subsection "Time Stamp Response verification"

.IX Item "\fB\-data\fR file_to_hash"

.IX Item "\fB\-digest\fR digest_bytes"

.IX Item "\fB\-queryfile\fR request.tsq"

.IX Item "\fB\-in\fR response.tsr"

.IX Item "\fB\-token_in\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-CApath\fR trusted_cert_path"

.IX Item "\fB\-CAfile\fR trusted_certs.pem"

.IX Item "\fB\-untrusted\fR cert_file.pem"

.IX Header "CONFIGURATION FILE OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fBtsa\fR section, \fBdefault_tsa\fR	"

.IX Item "\fBoid_file\fR"

.IX Item "\fBoid_section\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1RANDFILE\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fBserial\fR"

.IX Item "\fBcrypto_device\fR"

.IX Item "\fBsigner_cert\fR"

.IX Item "\fBcerts\fR"

.IX Item "\fBsigner_key\fR"

.IX Item "\fBdefault_policy\fR"

.IX Item "\fBother_policies\fR"

.IX Item "\fBdigests\fR"

.IX Item "\fBaccuracy\fR"

.IX Item "\fBclock_precision_digits\fR"

.IX Item "\fBordering\fR"

.IX Item "\fBtsa_name\fR"

.IX Item "\fBess_cert_id_chain\fR"

.IX Header "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Subsection "Time Stamp Request"

.IX Subsection "Time Stamp Response"

.IX Subsection "Time Stamp Verification"

.IX Header "BUGS"

.IX Item "\(bu No support for time stamps over \s-1SMTP\s0, though it is quite easy to implement an automatic e-mail based \s-1TSA\s0 with procmail(1)  and perl(1). \s-1HTTP\s0 server support is provided in the form of  a separate apache module. \s-1HTTP\s0 client support is provided by tsget(1). Pure \s-1TCP/IP\s0 protocol is not supported."

.IX Item "\(bu The file containing the last serial number of the \s-1TSA\s0 is not locked when being read or written. This is a problem if more than one instance of openssl(1) is trying to create a time stamp response at the same time. This is not an issue when using the apache server module, it does proper locking."

.IX Item "\(bu Look for the \s-1FIXME\s0 word in the source files."

.IX Item "\(bu The source code should really be reviewed by somebody else, too."

.IX Item "\(bu More testing is needed, I have done only some basic tests (see test/testtsa)."

.IX Header "AUTHOR"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

