.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH BN_BLINDING_new 3 "1.0.1e" "11/Feb/2013" "OpenSSL"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
BN_BLINDING_new, BN_BLINDING_free, BN_BLINDING_update, BN_BLINDING_convert, 
BN_BLINDING_invert, BN_BLINDING_convert_ex, BN_BLINDING_invert_ex, 
BN_BLINDING_get_thread_id, BN_BLINDING_set_thread_id, BN_BLINDING_get_flags,
BN_BLINDING_set_flags, BN_BLINDING_create_param \- blinding related BIGNUM
functions.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.Vb 1
\& #include <openssl/bn.h>
.Ve
.Vb 22
\& BN_BLINDING *BN_BLINDING_new(const BIGNUM *A, const BIGNUM *Ai,
\&        BIGNUM *mod);
\& void BN_BLINDING_free(BN_BLINDING *b);
\& int BN_BLINDING_update(BN_BLINDING *b,BN_CTX *ctx);
\& int BN_BLINDING_convert(BIGNUM *n, BN_BLINDING *b, BN_CTX *ctx);
\& int BN_BLINDING_invert(BIGNUM *n, BN_BLINDING *b, BN_CTX *ctx);
\& int BN_BLINDING_convert_ex(BIGNUM *n, BIGNUM *r, BN_BLINDING *b,
\&        BN_CTX *ctx);
\& int BN_BLINDING_invert_ex(BIGNUM *n, const BIGNUM *r, BN_BLINDING *b,
\&        BN_CTX *ctx);
\& #ifndef OPENSSL_NO_DEPRECATED
\& unsigned long BN_BLINDING_get_thread_id(const BN_BLINDING *);
\& void BN_BLINDING_set_thread_id(BN_BLINDING *, unsigned long);
\& #endif
\& CRYPTO_THREADID *BN_BLINDING_thread_id(BN_BLINDING *);
\& unsigned long BN_BLINDING_get_flags(const BN_BLINDING *);
\& void BN_BLINDING_set_flags(BN_BLINDING *, unsigned long);
\& BN_BLINDING *BN_BLINDING_create_param(BN_BLINDING *b,
\&        const BIGNUM *e, BIGNUM *m, BN_CTX *ctx,
\&        int (*bn_mod_exp)(BIGNUM *r, const BIGNUM *a, const BIGNUM *p,
\&                          const BIGNUM *m, BN_CTX *ctx, BN_MONT_CTX *m_ctx),
\&        BN_MONT_CTX *m_ctx);
.Ve
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fIBN_BLINDING_new()\fR allocates a new \fBBN_BLINDING\fR structure and copies
the \fBA\fR and \fBAi\fR values into the newly created \fBBN_BLINDING\fR object.
.PP
\fIBN_BLINDING_free()\fR frees the \fBBN_BLINDING\fR structure.
.PP
\fIBN_BLINDING_update()\fR updates the \fBBN_BLINDING\fR parameters by squaring
the \fBA\fR and \fBAi\fR or, after specific number of uses and if the
necessary parameters are set, by re-creating the blinding parameters.
.PP
\fIBN_BLINDING_convert_ex()\fR multiplies \fBn\fR with the blinding factor \fBA\fR.
If \fBr\fR is not NULL a copy the inverse blinding factor \fBAi\fR will be
returned in \fBr\fR (this is useful if a \fBRSA\fR object is shared amoung
several threads). \fIBN_BLINDING_invert_ex()\fR multiplies \fBn\fR with the
inverse blinding factor \fBAi\fR. If \fBr\fR is not NULL it will be used as
the inverse blinding.
.PP
\fIBN_BLINDING_convert()\fR and \fIBN_BLINDING_invert()\fR are wrapper
functions for \fIBN_BLINDING_convert_ex()\fR and \fIBN_BLINDING_invert_ex()\fR
with \fBr\fR set to NULL.
.PP
\fIBN_BLINDING_thread_id()\fR provides access to the \fBCRYPTO_THREADID\fR
object within the \fBBN_BLINDING\fR structure. This is to help users
provide proper locking if needed for multi-threaded use. The \*(L"thread
id\*(R" object of a newly allocated \fBBN_BLINDING\fR structure is
initialised to the thread id in which \fIBN_BLINDING_new()\fR was called.
.PP
\fIBN_BLINDING_get_flags()\fR returns the BN_BLINDING flags. Currently
there are two supported flags: \fBBN_BLINDING_NO_UPDATE\fR and
\fBBN_BLINDING_NO_RECREATE\fR. \fBBN_BLINDING_NO_UPDATE\fR inhibits the
automatic update of the \fBBN_BLINDING\fR parameters after each use
and \fBBN_BLINDING_NO_RECREATE\fR inhibits the automatic re-creation
of the \fBBN_BLINDING\fR parameters after a fixed number of uses (currently
32). In newly allocated \fBBN_BLINDING\fR objects no flags are set.
\fIBN_BLINDING_set_flags()\fR sets the \fBBN_BLINDING\fR parameters flags.
.PP
\fIBN_BLINDING_create_param()\fR creates new \fBBN_BLINDING\fR parameters
using the exponent \fBe\fR and the modulus \fBm\fR. \fBbn_mod_exp\fR and
\fBm_ctx\fR can be used to pass special functions for exponentiation
(normally \fIBN_mod_exp_mont()\fR and \fBBN_MONT_CTX\fR).
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
\fIBN_BLINDING_new()\fR returns the newly allocated \fBBN_BLINDING\fR structure
or NULL in case of an error.
.PP
\fIBN_BLINDING_update()\fR, \fIBN_BLINDING_convert()\fR, \fIBN_BLINDING_invert()\fR,
\fIBN_BLINDING_convert_ex()\fR and \fIBN_BLINDING_invert_ex()\fR return 1 on
success and 0 if an error occured.
.PP
\fIBN_BLINDING_thread_id()\fR returns a pointer to the thread id object
within a \fBBN_BLINDING\fR object.
.PP
\fIBN_BLINDING_get_flags()\fR returns the currently set \fBBN_BLINDING\fR flags
(a \fBunsigned long\fR value).
.PP
\fIBN_BLINDING_create_param()\fR returns the newly created \fBBN_BLINDING\fR 
parameters or NULL on error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bn(3)
.SH "HISTORY"
BN_BLINDING_thread_id was first introduced in OpenSSL 1.0.0, and it
deprecates BN_BLINDING_set_thread_id and BN_BLINDING_get_thread_id.
.PP
BN_BLINDING_convert_ex, BN_BLINDIND_invert_ex, BN_BLINDING_get_thread_id,
BN_BLINDING_set_thread_id, BN_BLINDING_set_flags, BN_BLINDING_get_flags
and BN_BLINDING_create_param were first introduced in OpenSSL 0.9.8
.SH "AUTHOR"
Nils Larsch for the OpenSSL project (http://www.openssl.org).

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "BN_BLINDING_new 3"
.IX Name "BN_BLINDING_new, BN_BLINDING_free, BN_BLINDING_update, BN_BLINDING_convert,  BN_BLINDING_invert, BN_BLINDING_convert_ex, BN_BLINDING_invert_ex,  BN_BLINDING_get_thread_id, BN_BLINDING_set_thread_id, BN_BLINDING_get_flags, BN_BLINDING_set_flags, BN_BLINDING_create_param - blinding related BIGNUM functions."

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "RETURN VALUES"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "HISTORY"

.IX Header "AUTHOR"

