.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH CMS_get0_SignerInfos 3 "1.0.1e" "11/Feb/2013" "OpenSSL"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
.PP
.Vb 1
\& CMS_get0_SignerInfos, CMS_SignerInfo_get0_signer_id, CMS_SignerInfo_cert_cmp, CMS_set1_signer_certs - CMS signedData signer functions.
.Ve
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.Vb 1
\& #include <openssl/cms.h>
.Ve
.Vb 1
\& STACK_OF(CMS_SignerInfo) *CMS_get0_SignerInfos(CMS_ContentInfo *cms);
.Ve
.Vb 3
\& int CMS_SignerInfo_get0_signer_id(CMS_SignerInfo *si, ASN1_OCTET_STRING **keyid, X509_NAME **issuer, ASN1_INTEGER **sno);
\& int CMS_SignerInfo_cert_cmp(CMS_SignerInfo *si, X509 *cert);
\& void CMS_SignerInfo_set1_signer_cert(CMS_SignerInfo *si, X509 *signer);
.Ve
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The function \fICMS_get0_SignerInfos()\fR returns all the CMS_SignerInfo structures
associated with a CMS signedData structure.
.PP
\fICMS_SignerInfo_get0_signer_id()\fR retrieves the certificate signer identifier
associated with a specific CMS_SignerInfo structure \fBsi\fR. Either the
keyidentifier will be set in \fBkeyid\fR or \fBboth\fR issuer name and serial number
in \fBissuer\fR and \fBsno\fR.
.PP
\fICMS_SignerInfo_cert_cmp()\fR compares the certificate \fBcert\fR against the signer
identifier \fBsi\fR. It returns zero if the comparison is successful and non zero
if not.
.PP
\fICMS_SignerInfo_set1_signer_cert()\fR sets the signers certificate of \fBsi\fR to
\fBsigner\fR.
.SH "NOTES"
The main purpose of these functions is to enable an application to lookup
signers certificates using any appropriate technique when the simpler method
of \fICMS_verify()\fR is not appropriate.
.PP
In typical usage and application will retrieve all CMS_SignerInfo structures
using \fICMS_get0_SignerInfo()\fR and retrieve the identifier information using
CMS. It will then obtain the signer certificate by some unspecified means
(or return and error if it cannot be found) and set it using
\fICMS_SignerInfo_set1_signer_cert()\fR.
.PP
Once all signer certificates have been set \fICMS_verify()\fR can be used.
.PP
Although \fICMS_get0_SignerInfos()\fR can return NULL is an error occur \fBor\fR if
there are no signers this is not a problem in practice because the only
error which can occur is if the \fBcms\fR structure is not of type signedData
due to application error.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
\fICMS_get0_SignerInfos()\fR returns all CMS_SignerInfo structures, or NULL there
are no signers or an error occurs.
.PP
\fICMS_SignerInfo_get0_signer_id()\fR returns 1 for success and 0 for failure.
.PP
\fICMS_SignerInfo_cert_cmp()\fR returns 0 for a successful comparison and non
zero otherwise.
.PP
\fICMS_SignerInfo_set1_signer_cert()\fR does not return a value.
.PP
Any error can be obtained from ERR_get_error(3)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ERR_get_error(3), CMS_verify(3)
.SH "HISTORY"
These functions were first was added to OpenSSL 0.9.8

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "CMS_get0_SignerInfos 3"
.IX Name "CMS_get0_SignerInfos, CMS_SignerInfo_get0_signer_id, CMS_SignerInfo_cert_cmp, CMS_set1_signer_certs - CMS signedData signer functions."

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "NOTES"

.IX Header "RETURN VALUES"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "HISTORY"

