.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH ASN1_generate_nconf 3 "1.0.1e" "11/Feb/2013" "OpenSSL"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
ASN1_generate_nconf, ASN1_generate_v3 \- ASN1 generation functions
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.Vb 1
\& #include <openssl/asn1.h>
.Ve
.Vb 2
\& ASN1_TYPE *ASN1_generate_nconf(char *str, CONF *nconf);
\& ASN1_TYPE *ASN1_generate_v3(char *str, X509V3_CTX *cnf);
.Ve
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
These functions generate the ASN1 encoding of a string
in an \fBASN1_TYPE\fR structure.
.PP
\fBstr\fR contains the string to encode \fBnconf\fR or \fBcnf\fR contains
the optional configuration information where additional strings
will be read from. \fBnconf\fR will typically come from a config
file wherease \fBcnf\fR is obtained from an \fBX509V3_CTX\fR structure
which will typically be used by X509 v3 certificate extension
functions. \fBcnf\fR or \fBnconf\fR can be set to \fBNULL\fR if no additional
configuration will be used.
.SH "GENERATION STRING FORMAT"
The actual data encoded is determined by the string \fBstr\fR and
the configuration information. The general format of the string
is:
.Ip "\fB[modifier,]type[:value]\fR" 2
.PP
That is zero or more comma separated modifiers followed by a type
followed by an optional colon and a value. The formats of \fBtype\fR,
\fBvalue\fR and \fBmodifier\fR are explained below.
.Sh "\s-1SUPPORTED\s0 \s-1TYPES\s0"
The supported types are listed below. Unless otherwise specified
only the \fB\s-1ASCII\s0\fR format is permissible.
.Ip "\fB\s-1BOOLEAN\s0\fR, \fB\s-1BOOL\s0\fR" 2
This encodes a boolean type. The \fBvalue\fR string is mandatory and
should be \fB\s-1TRUE\s0\fR or \fB\s-1FALSE\s0\fR. Additionally \fB\s-1TRUE\s0\fR, \fBtrue\fR, \fBY\fR,
\fBy\fR, \fB\s-1YES\s0\fR, \fByes\fR, \fB\s-1FALSE\s0\fR, \fBfalse\fR, \fBN\fR, \fBn\fR, \fB\s-1NO\s0\fR and \fBno\fR
are acceptable. 
.Ip "\fB\s-1NULL\s0\fR" 2
Encode the \fB\s-1NULL\s0\fR type, the \fBvalue\fR string must not be present.
.Ip "\fB\s-1INTEGER\s0\fR, \fB\s-1INT\s0\fR" 2
Encodes an \s-1ASN1\s0 \fB\s-1INTEGER\s0\fR type. The \fBvalue\fR string represents
the value of the integer, it can be preceeded by a minus sign and
is normally interpreted as a decimal value unless the prefix \fB0x\fR
is included.
.Ip "\fB\s-1ENUMERATED\s0\fR, \fB\s-1ENUM\s0\fR" 2
Encodes the \s-1ASN1\s0 \fB\s-1ENUMERATED\s0\fR type, it is otherwise identical to
\fB\s-1INTEGER\s0\fR.
.Ip "\fB\s-1OBJECT\s0\fR, \fB\s-1OID\s0\fR" 2
Encodes an \s-1ASN1\s0 \fB\s-1OBJECT\s0 \s-1IDENTIFIER\s0\fR, the \fBvalue\fR string can be
a short name, a long name or numerical format.
.Ip "\fB\s-1UTCTIME\s0\fR, \fB\s-1UTC\s0\fR" 2
Encodes an \s-1ASN1\s0 \fBUTCTime\fR structure, the value should be in
the format \fB\s-1YYMMDDHHMMSSZ\s0\fR. 
.Ip "\fB\s-1GENERALIZEDTIME\s0\fR, \fB\s-1GENTIME\s0\fR" 2
Encodes an \s-1ASN1\s0 \fBGeneralizedTime\fR structure, the value should be in
the format \fB\s-1YYYYMMDDHHMMSSZ\s0\fR. 
.Ip "\fB\s-1OCTETSTRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1OCT\s0\fR" 2
Encodes an \s-1ASN1\s0 \fB\s-1OCTET\s0 \s-1STRING\s0\fR. \fBvalue\fR represents the contents
of this structure, the format strings \fB\s-1ASCII\s0\fR and \fB\s-1HEX\s0\fR can be
used to specify the format of \fBvalue\fR.
.Ip "\fB\s-1BITSTRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1BITSTR\s0\fR" 2
Encodes an \s-1ASN1\s0 \fB\s-1BIT\s0 \s-1STRING\s0\fR. \fBvalue\fR represents the contents
of this structure, the format strings \fB\s-1ASCII\s0\fR, \fB\s-1HEX\s0\fR and \fB\s-1BITLIST\s0\fR
can be used to specify the format of \fBvalue\fR.
.Sp
If the format is anything other than \fB\s-1BITLIST\s0\fR the number of unused
bits is set to zero.
.Ip "\fB\s-1UNIVERSALSTRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1UNIV\s0\fR, \fB\s-1IA5\s0\fR, \fB\s-1IA5STRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1UTF8\s0\fR, \fBUTF8String\fR, \fB\s-1BMP\s0\fR, \fB\s-1BMPSTRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1VISIBLESTRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1VISIBLE\s0\fR, \fB\s-1PRINTABLESTRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1PRINTABLE\s0\fR, \fBT61\fR, \fBT61STRING\fR, \fB\s-1TELETEXSTRING\s0\fR, \fBGeneralString\fR, \fB\s-1NUMERICSTRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1NUMERIC\s0\fR" 2
These encode the corresponding string types. \fBvalue\fR represents the
contents of this structure. The format can be \fB\s-1ASCII\s0\fR or \fB\s-1UTF8\s0\fR.
.Ip "\fB\s-1SEQUENCE\s0\fR, \fB\s-1SEQ\s0\fR, \fB\s-1SET\s0\fR" 2
Formats the result as an \s-1ASN1\s0 \fB\s-1SEQUENCE\s0\fR or \fB\s-1SET\s0\fR type. \fBvalue\fR
should be a section name which will contain the contents. The
field names in the section are ignored and the values are in the
generated string format. If \fBvalue\fR is absent then an empty \s-1SEQUENCE\s0
will be encoded.
.Sh "\s-1MODIFIERS\s0"
Modifiers affect the following structure, they can be used to
add \s-1EXPLICIT\s0 or \s-1IMPLICIT\s0 tagging, add wrappers or to change
the string format of the final type and value. The supported
formats are documented below.
.Ip "\fB\s-1EXPLICIT\s0\fR, \fB\s-1EXP\s0\fR" 2
Add an explicit tag to the following structure. This string
should be followed by a colon and the tag value to use as a
decimal value.
.Sp
By following the number with \fBU\fR, \fBA\fR, \fBP\fR or \fBC\fR \s-1UNIVERSAL\s0,
\s-1APPLICATION\s0, \s-1PRIVATE\s0 or \s-1CONTEXT\s0 \s-1SPECIFIC\s0 tagging can be used,
the default is \s-1CONTEXT\s0 \s-1SPECIFIC\s0.
.Ip "\fB\s-1IMPLICIT\s0\fR, \fB\s-1IMP\s0\fR" 2
This is the same as \fB\s-1EXPLICIT\s0\fR except \s-1IMPLICIT\s0 tagging is used
instead.
.Ip "\fB\s-1OCTWRAP\s0\fR, \fB\s-1SEQWRAP\s0\fR, \fB\s-1SETWRAP\s0\fR, \fB\s-1BITWRAP\s0\fR" 2
The following structure is surrounded by an \s-1OCTET\s0 \s-1STRING\s0, a \s-1SEQUENCE\s0,
a \s-1SET\s0 or a \s-1BIT\s0 \s-1STRING\s0 respectively. For a \s-1BIT\s0 \s-1STRING\s0 the number of unused
bits is set to zero.
.Ip "\fB\s-1FORMAT\s0\fR" 2
This specifies the format of the ultimate value. It should be followed
by a colon and one of the strings \fB\s-1ASCII\s0\fR, \fB\s-1UTF8\s0\fR, \fB\s-1HEX\s0\fR or \fB\s-1BITLIST\s0\fR.
.Sp
If no format specifier is included then \fB\s-1ASCII\s0\fR is used. If \fB\s-1UTF8\s0\fR is
specified then the value string must be a valid \fB\s-1UTF8\s0\fR string. For \fB\s-1HEX\s0\fR the
output must be a set of hex digits. \fB\s-1BITLIST\s0\fR (which is only valid for a \s-1BIT\s0
\s-1STRING\s0) is a comma separated list of the indices of the set bits, all other
bits are zero.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
A simple IA5String:
.PP
.Vb 1
\& IA5STRING:Hello World
.Ve
An IA5String explicitly tagged:
.PP
.Vb 1
\& EXPLICIT:0,IA5STRING:Hello World
.Ve
An IA5String explicitly tagged using APPLICATION tagging:
.PP
.Vb 1
\& EXPLICIT:0A,IA5STRING:Hello World
.Ve
A BITSTRING with bits 1 and 5 set and all others zero:
.PP
.Vb 1
\& FORMAT:BITLIST,BITSTRING:1,5
.Ve
A more complex example using a config file to produce a
SEQUENCE consiting of a BOOL an OID and a UTF8String:
.PP
.Vb 1
\& asn1 = SEQUENCE:seq_section
.Ve
.Vb 1
\& [seq_section]
.Ve
.Vb 3
\& field1 = BOOLEAN:TRUE
\& field2 = OID:commonName
\& field3 = UTF8:Third field
.Ve
This example produces an RSAPrivateKey structure, this is the
key contained in the file client.pem in all OpenSSL distributions
(note: the field names such as \*(L'coeff\*(R' are ignored and are present just
for clarity):
.PP
.Vb 3
\& asn1=SEQUENCE:private_key
\& [private_key]
\& version=INTEGER:0
.Ve
.Vb 2
\& n=INTEGER:0xBB6FE79432CC6EA2D8F970675A5A87BFBE1AFF0BE63E879F2AFFB93644\e
\& D4D2C6D000430DEC66ABF47829E74B8C5108623A1C0EE8BE217B3AD8D36D5EB4FCA1D9
.Ve
.Vb 1
\& e=INTEGER:0x010001
.Ve
.Vb 2
\& d=INTEGER:0x6F05EAD2F27FFAEC84BEC360C4B928FD5F3A9865D0FCAAD291E2A52F4A\e
\& F810DC6373278C006A0ABBA27DC8C63BF97F7E666E27C5284D7D3B1FFFE16B7A87B51D
.Ve
.Vb 2
\& p=INTEGER:0xF3929B9435608F8A22C208D86795271D54EBDFB09DDEF539AB083DA912\e
\& D4BD57
.Ve
.Vb 2
\& q=INTEGER:0xC50016F89DFF2561347ED1186A46E150E28BF2D0F539A1594BBD7FE467\e
\& 46EC4F
.Ve
.Vb 2
\& exp1=INTEGER:0x9E7D4326C924AFC1DEA40B45650134966D6F9DFA3A7F9D698CD4ABEA\e
\& 9C0A39B9
.Ve
.Vb 2
\& exp2=INTEGER:0xBA84003BB95355AFB7C50DF140C60513D0BA51D637272E355E397779\e
\& E7B2458F
.Ve
.Vb 2
\& coeff=INTEGER:0x30B9E4F2AFA5AC679F920FC83F1F2DF1BAF1779CF989447FABC2F5\e
\& 628657053A
.Ve
This example is the corresponding public key in a SubjectPublicKeyInfo
structure:
.PP
.Vb 2
\& # Start with a SEQUENCE
\& asn1=SEQUENCE:pubkeyinfo
.Ve
.Vb 5
\& # pubkeyinfo contains an algorithm identifier and the public key wrapped
\& # in a BIT STRING
\& [pubkeyinfo]
\& algorithm=SEQUENCE:rsa_alg
\& pubkey=BITWRAP,SEQUENCE:rsapubkey
.Ve
.Vb 4
\& # algorithm ID for RSA is just an OID and a NULL
\& [rsa_alg]
\& algorithm=OID:rsaEncryption
\& parameter=NULL
.Ve
.Vb 4
\& # Actual public key: modulus and exponent
\& [rsapubkey]
\& n=INTEGER:0xBB6FE79432CC6EA2D8F970675A5A87BFBE1AFF0BE63E879F2AFFB93644\e
\& D4D2C6D000430DEC66ABF47829E74B8C5108623A1C0EE8BE217B3AD8D36D5EB4FCA1D9
.Ve
.Vb 1
\& e=INTEGER:0x010001
.Ve
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
\fIASN1_generate_nconf()\fR and \fIASN1_generate_v3()\fR return the encoded
data as an \fBASN1_TYPE\fR structure or \fBNULL\fR if an error occurred.
.PP
The error codes that can be obtained by ERR_get_error(3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ERR_get_error(3)
.SH "HISTORY"
\fIASN1_generate_nconf()\fR and \fIASN1_generate_v3()\fR were added to OpenSSL 0.9.8

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "ASN1_generate_nconf 3"
.IX Name "ASN1_generate_nconf, ASN1_generate_v3 - ASN1 generation functions"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "GENERATION STRING FORMAT"

.IX Item "\fB[modifier,]type[:value]\fR"

.IX Subsection "\s-1SUPPORTED\s0 \s-1TYPES\s0"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1BOOLEAN\s0\fR, \fB\s-1BOOL\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1NULL\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1INTEGER\s0\fR, \fB\s-1INT\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1ENUMERATED\s0\fR, \fB\s-1ENUM\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1OBJECT\s0\fR, \fB\s-1OID\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1UTCTIME\s0\fR, \fB\s-1UTC\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1GENERALIZEDTIME\s0\fR, \fB\s-1GENTIME\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1OCTETSTRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1OCT\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1BITSTRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1BITSTR\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1UNIVERSALSTRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1UNIV\s0\fR, \fB\s-1IA5\s0\fR, \fB\s-1IA5STRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1UTF8\s0\fR, \fBUTF8String\fR, \fB\s-1BMP\s0\fR, \fB\s-1BMPSTRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1VISIBLESTRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1VISIBLE\s0\fR, \fB\s-1PRINTABLESTRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1PRINTABLE\s0\fR, \fBT61\fR, \fBT61STRING\fR, \fB\s-1TELETEXSTRING\s0\fR, \fBGeneralString\fR, \fB\s-1NUMERICSTRING\s0\fR, \fB\s-1NUMERIC\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1SEQUENCE\s0\fR, \fB\s-1SEQ\s0\fR, \fB\s-1SET\s0\fR"

.IX Subsection "\s-1MODIFIERS\s0"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1EXPLICIT\s0\fR, \fB\s-1EXP\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1IMPLICIT\s0\fR, \fB\s-1IMP\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1OCTWRAP\s0\fR, \fB\s-1SEQWRAP\s0\fR, \fB\s-1SETWRAP\s0\fR, \fB\s-1BITWRAP\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\s-1FORMAT\s0\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "RETURN VALUES"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "HISTORY"

