.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH PKEYUTL 1 "1.0.1e" "11/Feb/2013" "OpenSSL"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
pkeyutl \- public key algorithm utility
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBopenssl\fR \fBpkeyutl\fR
[\fB\-in file\fR]
[\fB\-out file\fR]
[\fB\-sigfile file\fR]
[\fB\-inkey file\fR]
[\fB\-keyform PEM|DER\fR]
[\fB\-passin arg\fR]
[\fB\-peerkey file\fR]
[\fB\-peerform PEM|DER\fR]
[\fB\-pubin\fR]
[\fB\-certin\fR]
[\fB\-rev\fR]
[\fB\-sign\fR]
[\fB\-verify\fR]
[\fB\-verifyrecover\fR]
[\fB\-encrypt\fR]
[\fB\-decrypt\fR]
[\fB\-derive\fR]
[\fB\-pkeyopt opt:value\fR]
[\fB\-hexdump\fR]
[\fB\-asn1parse\fR]
[\fB\-engine id\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBpkeyutl\fR command can be used to perform public key operations using
any supported algorithm.
.SH "COMMAND OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-in filename\fR" 4
This specifies the input filename to read data from or standard input
if this option is not specified.
.Ip "\fB\-out filename\fR" 4
specifies the output filename to write to or standard output by
default.
.Ip "\fB\-inkey file\fR" 4
the input key file, by default it should be a private key.
.Ip "\fB\-keyform \s-1PEM\s0|\s-1DER\s0\fR" 4
the key format \s-1PEM\s0, \s-1DER\s0 or \s-1ENGINE\s0.
.Ip "\fB\-passin arg\fR" 4
the input key password source. For more information about the format of \fBarg\fR
see the \fB\s-1PASS\s0 \s-1PHRASE\s0 \s-1ARGUMENTS\s0\fR section in openssl(1).
.Ip "\fB\-peerkey file\fR" 4
the peer key file, used by key derivation (agreement) operations.
.Ip "\fB\-peerform \s-1PEM\s0|\s-1DER\s0\fR" 4
the peer key format \s-1PEM\s0, \s-1DER\s0 or \s-1ENGINE\s0.
.Ip "\fB\-engine id\fR" 4
specifying an engine (by its unique \fBid\fR string) will cause \fBpkeyutl\fR
to attempt to obtain a functional reference to the specified engine,
thus initialising it if needed. The engine will then be set as the default
for all available algorithms.
.Ip "\fB\-pubin\fR" 4
the input file is a public key. 
.Ip "\fB\-certin\fR" 4
the input is a certificate containing a public key. 
.Ip "\fB\-rev\fR" 4
reverse the order of the input buffer. This is useful for some libraries
(such as CryptoAPI) which represent the buffer in little endian format.
.Ip "\fB\-sign\fR" 4
sign the input data and output the signed result. This requires
a private key.
.Ip "\fB\-verify\fR" 4
verify the input data against the signature file and indicate if the
verification succeeded or failed.
.Ip "\fB\-verifyrecover\fR" 4
verify the input data and output the recovered data.
.Ip "\fB\-encrypt\fR" 4
encrypt the input data using a public key.
.Ip "\fB\-decrypt\fR" 4
decrypt the input data using a private key.
.Ip "\fB\-derive\fR" 4
derive a shared secret using the peer key.
.Ip "\fB\-hexdump\fR" 4
hex dump the output data.
.Ip "\fB\-asn1parse\fR" 4
asn1parse the output data, this is useful when combined with the
\fB\-verifyrecover\fR option when an \s-1ASN1\s0 structure is signed.
.SH "NOTES"
The operations and options supported vary according to the key algorithm
and its implementation. The OpenSSL operations and options are indicated below.
.PP
Unless otherwise mentioned all algorithms support the \fBdigest:alg\fR option
which specifies the digest in use for sign, verify and verifyrecover operations.
The value \fBalg\fR should represent a digest name as used in the
\fIEVP_get_digestbyname()\fR function for example \fBsha1\fR.
.SH "RSA ALGORITHM"
The RSA algorithm supports encrypt, decrypt, sign, verify and verifyrecover
operations in general. Some padding modes only support some of these 
operations however.
.Ip "-\fBrsa_padding_mode:mode\fR" 4
This sets the \s-1RSA\s0 padding mode. Acceptable values for \fBmode\fR are \fBpkcs1\fR for
\s-1PKCS\s0#1 padding, \fBsslv23\fR for SSLv23 padding, \fBnone\fR for no padding, \fBoaep\fR
for \fB\s-1OAEP\s0\fR mode, \fBx931\fR for X9.31 mode and \fBpss\fR for \s-1PSS\s0.
.Sp
In \s-1PKCS\s0#1 padding if the message digest is not set then the supplied data is 
signed or verified directly instead of using a \fBDigestInfo\fR structure. If a
digest is set then the a \fBDigestInfo\fR structure is used and its the length
must correspond to the digest type.
.Sp
For \fBoeap\fR mode only encryption and decryption is supported.
.Sp
For \fBx931\fR if the digest type is set it is used to format the block data
otherwise the first byte is used to specify the X9.31 digest \s-1ID\s0. Sign,
verify and verifyrecover are can be performed in this mode.
.Sp
For \fBpss\fR mode only sign and verify are supported and the digest type must be
specified.
.Ip "\fBrsa_pss_saltlen:len\fR" 4
For \fBpss\fR mode only this option specifies the salt length. Two special values
are supported: \-1 sets the salt length to the digest length. When signing \-2
sets the salt length to the maximum permissible value. When verifying \-2 causes
the salt length to be automatically determined based on the \fB\s-1PSS\s0\fR block
structure.
.SH "DSA ALGORITHM"
The DSA algorithm supports signing and verification operations only. Currently
there are no additional options other than \fBdigest\fR. Only the SHA1
digest can be used and this digest is assumed by default.
.SH "DH ALGORITHM"
The DH algorithm only supports the derivation operation and no additional
options.
.SH "EC ALGORITHM"
The EC algorithm supports sign, verify and derive operations. The sign and
verify operations use ECDSA and derive uses ECDH. Currently there are no
additional options other than \fBdigest\fR. Only the SHA1 digest can be used and
this digest is assumed by default.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Sign some data using a private key:
.PP
.Vb 1
\& openssl pkeyutl -sign -in file -inkey key.pem -out sig
.Ve
Recover the signed data (e.g. if an RSA key is used):
.PP
.Vb 1
\& openssl pkeyutl -verifyrecover -in sig -inkey key.pem
.Ve
Verify the signature (e.g. a DSA key):
.PP
.Vb 1
\& openssl pkeyutl -verify -in file -sigfile sig -inkey key.pem
.Ve
Sign data using a message digest value (this is currently only valid for RSA):
.PP
.Vb 1
\& openssl pkeyutl -sign -in file -inkey key.pem -out sig -pkeyopt digest:sha256
.Ve
Derive a shared secret value:
.PP
.Vb 1
\& openssl pkeyutl -derive -inkey key.pem -peerkey pubkey.pem -out secret
.Ve
.SH "SEE ALSO"
genpkey(1), pkey(1), rsautl(1)
dgst(1), rsa(1), genrsa(1)

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "PKEYUTL 1"
.IX Name "pkeyutl - public key algorithm utility"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "COMMAND OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-in filename\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-out filename\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-inkey file\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-keyform \s-1PEM\s0|\s-1DER\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-passin arg\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-peerkey file\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-peerform \s-1PEM\s0|\s-1DER\s0\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-engine id\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-pubin\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-certin\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-rev\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-sign\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-verify\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-verifyrecover\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-encrypt\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-decrypt\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-derive\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-hexdump\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-asn1parse\fR"

.IX Header "NOTES"

.IX Header "RSA ALGORITHM"

.IX Item "-\fBrsa_padding_mode:mode\fR"

.IX Item "\fBrsa_pss_saltlen:len\fR"

.IX Header "DSA ALGORITHM"

.IX Header "DH ALGORITHM"

.IX Header "EC ALGORITHM"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

